---
title: Ah the buffer and duffer
date: 2020-07-20 16:52:01 +0530
categories: [Basics]
tags: [basics,bufio,dup]
comments: false
pin: true
---

In earlier post we learnt about accessing command line arguments with `os` package.
Here let's check other modes of input like __stdin__.

# The `bufio` package

Have a look at the following program,

> dup1.go

```go
// dup1 prints the line which appear more than one time in stdin
// along with its count
package main

import (
  "os"
  "fmt"
  "bufio"
)

func main() {
  counts := make(map[string]int)
  input := bufio.NewScanner(os.Stdin)
  for input.Scan() {
    counts[input.Text()]++
  }
  // Ignoring errors from input.Err()
  for line, n := range counts {
    if n > 1 {
      fmt.Printf("%d\t%s\n", n, line)
    }
  }
}
```

So here just like `for` we never use parantheses/bracket for `if` also.

Coming to `map`, so we first make map of type int identified with string, if it were C++ we'd do something like,
```cpp
std::map<std::string, int> someMap;
```
But in Go we use the keyword `make` to first initiate a map of type `(string, int)`, so `map[string]int`
means the map will hold a value of type `string` to identify the `int` value.

Next coming to for loop, we have two values coming straight from `counts`,
first is the string the one which acts like index in map, and then int, the value mapped to those strings.
so this way we can access multiple value from one thing, which isn't possible in C/C++.
In Go one can return multiple entities.

There the line `counts[input.Text()]++` is equivalent to
```go
line := input.Text()
counts[line]++
```

In C++ to get input from stdin line by line we do something like,
```cpp
std::string line;
std::getline(std::cin, line);
```

similarly in Go we create a buffer which is then read line by line by us.

```go
input := bufio.NewScanner(os.Stdin)
```
So above line creates a buffer input which we will read line by line, note that we haven't read anything yet
think of this like input is a literal scanner (the hardware machine) and os.Stdin the papers/pictures to scan
and `input.Text()` the output per paper/picture. So until we turn on scanner it won't do anything, similar condition here.

```go
for input.Scan() {
}
```
This is basically returning true until there's something to read in stdin buffer.

With `bufio` package we can do many other things like,

- `bufio.Scanner()`
- `bufio.Reader()`
- `bufio.ScanLines()`
- `bufio.ScanRunes()`
- `bufio.ScanWords()`
- `bufio.ReadWriter()`

Etc.

> The operator `:=` declares new variable and assigns the value and datatype is automatically assigned to it.
> While `=` is assignment operator which assigns the value and not declare something new.

# `printf()` vs `fmt.Printf()`
Now we have talked about bufio let's talk about `fmt.Printf()`.
Think of `fmt.Printf()` a ninja just like `printf` but with some extra shurikens.

`fmt.Printf()` can convert many types like,

- `%d`             for integer in base 10 (decimal integer)
- `%x, %o, %b`     for integer in base 16, 8 and 2 respectively
- `%f, %g, %e`     for floating numbers with different precision
- `%t`             for boolean true or false
- `%c`             for rune (aka Unicode character, it's an 8 byte char)
- `%s`             for string
- `%q`             for quoted string like "abcd" or quoted rune like 'r'
- `%v`             any value in natural format (Usually used when no conversion is needed)
- `%T`             for value of any type (I guess used when we are not sure about datatype)
- `%%`             just a percent sign lol

Etc. there are many more like these, have a look in godoc.

Now as a challenge, write a program in go to emulate dup1 but it takes input from a file or if no filename provided
then from **stdin**.

Some hints,
- To open file use `os.Open()`
- Don't forget to check for errors which might be produced while opening the file.

Anyways I'll write answer in my next post.
