---
title: Tutorial
date: 2020-07-19 19:25:14 +0530
categories: [Basics]
tags: [tutorial,starting,basics,gobasics,basic,go]
comments: false
pin: true
---

# Hello, World!
```go
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
  fmt.Println("Hello, 世界!") // basically translates to Hello, sekai (Hello, World!)
}
```

Save it as `hello.go` and run it,

```shell
# running the program like python does, though python is interpreted language, while go is not
go run hello.go
Hello, 世界!

# or you can statically compile and link it like gcc does
go build hello.go
./hello
Hello, 世界!
```

Now let's talk about the go program itself. Each file of go code is associated with a package (a part of package),
where package is similar to library or modules in other languages.

A package has one or many `.go` files.
To distinguish files of particular package we include the line at top `package <package name>`
So all files with same package name are associated with that package

So the line `package gohaha` means it belongs to `gohaha` package.
Like in C++ we have standard library for almost all tasks similarly we have packages in Go.

But there is one exception, that is `package main` it's a special one. It defines standalone executable program,
and not a library. And you might have already guessed that, under that package we have a function `main`
which is also special, it's just like `main` function in C/C++.

Then comes the `import` which is basically include, it gets all the functionality of the
package we import and pours it into that file.

> `import` must be followed by `package` because the are related things and should be kept together also strict go syntax.
>
> After `import` we can have vars, functions, structs, etc.
For vars, functions, etc. order doesn't matter.

## Functions
```go
func gobaba(baba int) (int, int64) {
  // Do something with baba and return result
  return baba * 2, 1<<56;
}
```
So a function consists of keyword `func` followed by the function name which may or may not take arguments/parameters
followed by list to be returned (go can return multiple entities) and after that opening brace/bracket and then we proceed function body.
In case of `main` function it doesn't take any arguments and and doesn't return anything (actually it does, but we don't decide that).
