---
title: Secrets that hide in a file
date: 2020-07-21 07:34:19 +0530
categories: [Basics]
tags: [basics,file,map]
comments: false
pin: true
---

Let's start with the solution of our previous challenge

> dup2.go

```go
package main

import (
	"bufio"
	"fmt"
	"os"
)

func main() {
	counts := make(map[string]int)
	files := os.Args[1:]
	if len(files) == 0 {
		countLines(os.Stdin, counts)
	} else {
		for _, arg := range files {
			f, err := os.Open(arg)
			if err != nil {
				fmt.Fprintf(os.Stderr, "dup2: %v\n", err)
				continue
			}
			countLines(f, counts)
			f.Close()
		}
	}
	for line, n := range counts {
		if n > 1 {
			fmt.Printf("%d: %s\n", n, line)
		}
	}
}

func countLines(f *os.File, counts map[string]int) {
	input := bufio.NewScanner(f)
	for input.Scan() {
		counts[input.Text()]++
	}
}
```

# `os.Open()` the door to secrets
Here we see that to open file we use `os.Open(<filename>)` then read it with `bufio.Scanner()`.
The method `os.Open()` returns two values, one is the content of the file (aka `*os.File`) and another
the error as a string if it failed to access/open the file.

If the second value returned by `os.Open()` (here `err`) is equal to special built-in value `nil`
then we are good to go as file was opened successfully otherwise we have to inspect the error.

`f.Close()` is what you're probably already thinking. So after we're done with the file we close the file.

We also see the use of `%v` here, we used that to print the error if as we didn't know what error was in.

We must handle potential errors always, but here we didn't handled error from `input.Err()` in the
`countLines()` method.

Notice we defined the method `countLines()` after it was used in `main()` functions, that basically
tells us that we can define them in any order and it doesn't really matter as long as it is in scope.
We'll discuss about scopes in some later post. Hence,

> Order of definition of functions/methods doesn't matter as long they remain
> in scope, while order for variables does matter, they must be defined or declared
> before they are used or accessed.

# `map` the finder
Now let's discuss about `map` here for a bit. A map is a reference to the data structure created by __make__.
So being a reference type, when we do something like `var counts map[string]int` the value of `counts` is nil
and doesn't point to an initialized map. A nil map behaves like an empty map while reading, but if you
try to write to it linker will yell at you and throw a panic. So don't do that.

Try it, change line 10 from `counts := make(map[string]int)` to `var counts map[string]int`

So instead we have to initialize the map with the data structure that lies within it all to zero values.
To do so we use `make` like,
```go
counts := make(map[string]int)
```

Alternatively you can also initialize map like,
```go
counts := map[string]int
```

> What the heck is the difference then?

**Answer:** One let's you decide the capacity before hand and another values.
__e.g.,__
```go
counts := make(map[string]int, 10)
```

```go
counts := map[string]int {"one": 1, "two": 2, "three": 3}
```

But for empty maps they both are equivalent.

## Challenge
This program (`dup2.go`) operate in __streaming__ mode in which each input is read and broken into
lines and operated on, next try writing a program which will take the whole input into memory in one go
and then split it into lines all at once and then process the lines.

> HINT: Try using `ioutil.ReadFile()` which is from package `io/ioutil`.
