---
title: My room goes echo
date: 2020-07-19 21:10:51 +0530
categories: [Basics]
tags: [basics,args,arguments,os,godoc,var,statement,for]
comments: false
pin: true
---

# The `os` package
This `os` package provides platform-independent interface to operating system functionality.
We use this package to open files, access command line arguments, etc.

If we have a look at godoc we find that os package provides us with many features, few are;

- Chmod
- Chtimes
- Expand
- ExpandEnv
- FileMode
- Getenv
- IsNotExist
- LookupEnv
- OpenFile
- Unsetenv

And many more.

All of the above features are self explanatory by their names, if not then wait for the moment they are needed, or if in hurry
lookup in godoc, to do so execute the following in a shell,
```shell
godoc -http=localhost:6060
```
And then open browser and go to localhost:6060 and find os package and read about it.

## Using `os` package
So let's use this package in some way, as we all know most programs need some sort of input or data.
We give input to a program in several ways like, command line arguments, stdin, files, network, output of other programs.

Most basic is passing arguments to program as we do it most often also, __e.g.,__ `ls --color=auto`

So how we do that in go?

Let's make a program which basically behaves like echo program in \*nix. Reason to choose this kind
of program is because we don't have to do anything with the command line arguments, just print them as is.

> echo1.go

```go
package main

import (
  "os"
  "fmt"
)

func main() {
  var text, separator string
  for i := 1; i < len(os.Args); i++ {
    text += separator + os.Args[i]
    separator = " "
  }
  fmt.Println(text)
}
```

Let's understand the insides of main function line by line
- `var text, separator string`

What this line does is declare two variables `text` and `separator` of type string. Here we need
to pay attention on two things, furst, we var keyword is used to declare vars,
and datatype is written at last.

> One might have also observed that we didn't initialize the variables but still program doesn't
> throw any error, that's because go is intelligent and initializes when not initialized to their
> default 0 value.
> To understand what I mean by zero value, have a look at this, `var one int` default zero value of int is 0,
> so at that moment value of `one` is zero. While for strings it's the default empty string, like `""`.
> So basically in Go no variable is uninitialized for safety purposes.

- `for i := 1; i < len(os.Args); i++ {}`

Well in previous example we saw that to declare variable we use `var` keyword while here we haven't
used any keyword to declare `i`. That is because we can declare variable this way also but we are
of course supposed to know the value before hand.

So basically `i := 1` means
```go
var i int
i = 1
```

Which is kinda long, but go saves our time with `i := 1`.

> Also you might have noticed that there are no brackets for `for` loop, like we have in C/C++ and other languages.
> Go doesn't need those brackets, so it's always wise to not put them else compiler will yell at you.

`len()` gives length of it's parameter.

Now let's have a look at `i++`, this is not an expression like we know in C/C++, it is a statement,
which basically means that `i++` translates to `i += 1` or simply put `i = i + 1`, so we can't
write something like `a = b++`, because that'll be illegal,
also we only have postfix in Go, so no `--i`.

- `text += separator + os.Args[i]`

The `+` there is appending string in given order. If it doesn't look intuitive then write above statement as
`text = text + separator + os.Args[i]`, where `text` and `separator` were just empty string (`""`) but we
change value of separator in next line and text by changing value in this line

- `fmt.Println(text)`

This just prints the string `text` whose value is our command line arguments separated by spaces.
